There's one more thing with user
fact that we need to consider,
which is with our life-cycle hooks,
we have component did mount we also
have component will unmount, right?
And that is good for anytime we're
setting up something that recurs,
like I said interval or
a web socket connection.
Anytime you set up something that
persists, you need to clean it up as well.
So here's a fact gives us an API for
doing that, right?
And what it does is we have
like what the function is.
And then if it does return a value, right,
that return value will be
called afterwards, right?
And we'll start out with
a super trivial example.
And later on,
we'll actually see a different one.
So, let's go ahead and
we've got all of this.
We go ahead and give ourselves a way to
add additional counters and remove them.
That way we can mount stuff
to the page and unmount it,
right, so we'll start out in
here we'll say set interval.
And this actually works pretty well.
We'll say, what amounts to the page,
start doing that and
let's do every three seconds.
That seems good.
So effect there, cool.
Those three seconds were just
longer than I had patience for.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And you can see if we increment it.
Now, you'll notice that we're
getting 1 and 0, right?
Cuz as the count changes,
it registered another interval, right?
So we're getting 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0.
If we added multiple counters
on every state change,
it would register another interval.
It's never actually cleaning up on itself.
So we actually don't need to even
add multiple counters in this case.
We'll see it,
if we increment a bunch more times.
Do it like this.
Let's just do a whole bunch.
What could possibly go wrong?
Every single iteration and render of
that registered its own set interval and
never cleaned up.
Right because it each slice and time
thing that we're talking about before.
So it's one of those things where
it works as far as we know.
And this is a console log.
Now imagine it was actually like
sending a network request instead, or
registering a web socket connection,
right?
Those more like subtle things
that come to bite you.
So all we have to do is clean this up.
We do this real quick
will actually give it
a set interval returns a number
which is the idea of that interval.
And then we can return a function
that is clear interval without ID.
Now you can hit a bunch of times.
Now we'll just get the most recent one.
Now we're cleaning up after ourselves.
So as well those subtle things
like missing a dependency,
we can accidentally DDoS your server.
It's also a way that you can
accidentally make a mistake.
We didn't get an error message.
Nothing yelled at us.
Right, but
it wasn't the effect that we wanted.
So use effect gives us the ability
to define dependencies.
That way it will and will not run.
It also gives us the ability to
clean up after itself, right?
In this case and so
we were able to do that well.
All right, so we've really at this point,
we've gotten to all the API differences
between this SS state and U state.
We've gotten the API differences
in between component did mount and
will mount the lifecycle hooks and
use effect.
We're gonna kind of switch gears and
I'll talk a little bit about like a,
application that has multiple components,
and how we end up passing stuff down and
through, and
some ways that we can solve that.
We're also gonna talk about the fact that
having a function for basically having to
set every single state property, using its
own function can get a little bit tedious.
We're gonna see that multiple times.
We're gonna see that when we want to set
the loading, or the error state of an AJAX
request, or when we want to have
a form with multiple values, right?
Having a stack of those,
setCount, not bad.
Having a stack of them
is slightly problematic.
So we'll look at some now more
advanced ways of doing that.
Use state will work for
very simple values, but as
things get a little bit more complicated,
you might wanna use other patterns.